[Music]
so those that have seen bicep curl
videos or bicep curl pictures know that
we recommend a very different type of
curl than others now I do want to say
before we get into the curl discussion
there's some people who just don't do
curls because they they really want to
focus on multi-joint movements or more
functional movements which is a very
overused term I mean the function of a
muscle is to shorten so you can define
anything as functional but they want to
mimic the things that they might do in a
sport or you know maybe they want to do
things that are called functional by
their CrossFit instructor which may or
may not be true so let's let's move on
to the way we do curls now instead of a
normal curl position so a normal curl
position finishes like this
you bring the bar almost up to the
bridge of your nose the problem with
bringing the bar right here is if you
look at the radius and although if you
look at the lower arm it's perpendicular
to the ground this is not the ground I
know that but you know the table is
perpendicular parallel to the ground so
when this happens the bicep is shut off
so you have a stimulus type situation or
in the intention of a stimulus where
you're turning the muscle on turning it
off turning it on turning it off it's a
terrible stimulus you're not keeping
constant tension on the muscles so the
way to keep constant tension on the
muscle is instead of doing this you do
this so you see how the biceps at a very
contracted position here whereas here
it's not at all so we get the highest
tension and the hardest contraction
right here so the reason they called rag
curls is because you're hovering the bar
kind of dragging it up the front of your
body
now as you do this you're engaging the
posterior deltoid right back here but
also you
traps kind of this muscle the trapezius
kind of pushes your head a little
forward and that's normal you're a
normal positioning for a drag curl is
that the heads gonna come forward a
little bit just because the biomechanics
require it to now it also turns the
movement into a multi joint movement and
what we know from research is that multi
joint movements stimulate more growth
than single joint movements so by
getting another joint involved we're not
only really getting the posterior
deltoid we're enabling the body to see
two joints moving maximizing the
musculature that could be involved
you're gonna handle more weight and
you're going to be able to stimulate
more growth and have all the associated
benefits of a multi joint movement and
see incredible bicep growth